PAUL LEWIS: Hello, folks.
Let's talk about colors,
and the prototyping
that I've been
doing in that area.
If you remember from the--
I think it was the first entry?
Yeah, probably.
The one where I was talking
about the icons, which
I've got on screen.
You can see.
Do you remember how I was saying
the color scheme of the site
was going to adapt
to the content?
Well, if you remember that, and
I mentioned I think at the time
that I was using a
thing called Median Cut.
And I thought I'd show
you a little bit more
around that in this
particular entry.
So what I have is I've
got a script here,
which it's all JavaScript.
It's written in node, which
I would expect to ultimately
be part of the build process.
So that when I take a video
in, and its thumbnail image,
I can pass it through
to this script and say,
what colors do I need to
have from for this video?
And it will spit me out
a palette of 16 colors.
Let me show you it running.
There on the screen there.
Node, swatch test, and then
I've got this image here
that I took of Gibraltar
when I was there.
It's a very nice
place to go and visit.
It's quite small though.
I think it's like a
mile long or something.
I really enjoyed it.
Anyway, nonetheless we
have the photo of that.
And we'll run this.
And you can see it says
quantizing to 16 buckets.
So what it's doing
is it's trying
to find the 16 representative
colors from the image.
And it spits out a
bunch of RGB values.
But I've also had it
make an HTML file.
So if I double click,
looks like this.
And so this is the palette of
16 colors that it's derived from
the photo, which,
if I put the photo,
you can see that that's-- yeah,
those colors look correct.
So how does it do it?
Well, Median Cut is the answer.
But let me show you
around the code.
So the swatch test, it loads the
image that whatever I give it,
and then it gets the
pixels back for the image.
And it asks the
swatch class, which
I'll step into in a
moment, to quantize--
quantize is basically
grouping in this instance--
and then it orders
them by luminance
because you got to order
the colors by something.
And sort of
brightness, luminance,
is pretty much one
of the best ways
to do that because
it means you know
that it's going to kind of
get brighter as it goes along.
And anyway, we'll come back
to that in a little bit.
And then you see
I write that out,
and then I write this file
just so that I could show you
basically what's in the swatch.
So how do we do a swatch?
How do we create those images?
Well, loading is just a
case of loading the image.
And I am using Get
Pixels here, which
is a node module that
kind of behaves similarly
to the canvas that you can
draw in an image into a canvas,
and then you can say get
image data on the canvas.
And it would give you back a
contiguous array of pixel data,
which means that
rather than having,
say, an array of
objects with RGBA,
you just get one long
array with RGBA, RGBA.
And you have to step
up in groups of four
and pull the red, green,
blue, alpha values per pixel
as like a block.
Anyway, so you can see
actually what I do is I
call Get Pixels, which
does a similar thing.
It gives you back one of
these contiguous arrays.
And I convert these
across the RGBA, well,
I see RGB in this
particular instance
because I don't need
the alpha values.
You can see that
it's pretty much
what I was explaining there.
You go open y, go
open xy values.
So I go open each row
and I times it by 4.
Because I know that
each one of those pixels
will have four
items in the array.
So I pull those out.
So we end up with an
array of objects, which
all have RG and B values in.
And that's one per
pixel of the image.
Great.
The next thing to do is actually
do this Median Cut stuff.
And if you look at the
Wikipedia article on Median Cut,
it's actually really
good as an explanation.
It explains that
what you do is you
find across all of
your pixels which
component, the red,
the green, or the blue,
has the most variance in it,
which ones have the largest
range of values.
And you use that one, that
component, the red, green,
or the blue as the one to
order all the pixels by.
So you'll say for example--
you go through that
process and you go ah,
blue is the one with
the most variance.
And what you do
is you order them,
all the pixels by blue,
that blue component value,
and then you split the
whole array in two.
So now you've got 2 buckets.
And you repeat that process
to the end with four,
and then eight, and then 16,
and so on, and so on, and so on.
And the idea is that
eventually you'll
reach the base case of
this recursive process.
And you'll say right, I've got
bucket with however many pixels
in.
And you average
that whole bucket.
Now, at each step of
that recursive process,
you could say need to order
by red, or green, or blue.
So you'll always run the
process that gets you
the one with the biggest range.
So if you see here I've got
this find biggest range.
And it just takes
a bunch of pixels.
And you can see I step
through each pixel in there,
and I figure out the--
ooh, that's wrong.
That should be max.
Max, max, max.
Ooh, fixing bugs on the fly?
Eh?
We'll have to run that again
to see if that actually
fixes anything.
That's what you get,
Paul, when you copy paste.
Just as well it's a
prototype, isn't it?
So anyway, we go
through that process
and we figure out
the max and the min.
And then we figure out whether
the red, green, or blue
has the biggest range.
And then we basically
return red, green, or blue,
depending on which one
has the biggest range.
That shouldn't have
a semi-colon either.
There we go.
Next up we have the quantizing.
So imagine now that we've
ordered our array, however
big that is of pixels
by red, green, or blue.
And we now need to bucket
them appropriately.
So let's do the
recursive case first.
So we started with a big array,
say 1,000 pixels in there,
or whatever.
And we figure out which one
of the components, the R, G
or the B that we
want to sort by.
So we then sort all
our pixels by that.
And then what we
do is we slice--
hence the name median--
slice it down the middle.
And there we basically quantize.
We call down into the same
function, again, recursively
with the left half
of the sorted array
and the right half
of the sorted array.
And we increment the
depth value by 1.
And we still have maintained
what max depth is now.
I'm going for 16, which
is 2 to the power of 4.
So you'll see that my
max depth is defaulting
to whatever this default depth
is, which at the top you'll see
is 4.
So 1 would be to doing to
2 buckets, 2 would be to 4,
3 would be to 8, and
4 would be to 16.
And that's how we get the
16 colors in the bucket
and the base case.
This is the base case.
When we actually hit the
depth equaling the max depth,
we step through all the
colors, in all the pixels
in that particular bucket.
And we add them all up,
all their RDV values up,
and then we divide by
the number of values
we have to get the
average and round it.
And we return that as an array
with just a single color in.
And because I've got the
spread operator here,
all those will then get turned
back into an array of colors.
And that's basically
how we do it.
Ordering by luminance.
If you want to do that,
it's very, very well
documented on Wikipedia
and wherever else.
That says take a pixel and
times it's red component by--
in this case 0.2126, green by
0.7152, and the blue by 0.0722.
That will give you a scalar
value, a number which
you can then use to order.
So you see it's part
of a sorting function
here where I can calculate the
luminance for a given pixel.
And then I just sort
my values by that.
And that is basically
what's involved.
Now, since I have
actually fixed the bug,
let's run it again
and see what happens.
So let's do that.
Do we get a vastly
different swatch?
We do.
We get a different swatch now.
That's my fault
for having a bug.
But again, you see those colors.
If I bring the
image as well, you
can see that those
colors are still correct.
It's just that I was doing a
Median Cut in the wrong place
essentially by ordering
by the wrong component.
But you see now I actually
get a much broader palette.
So that's good.
Glad we had this chat.
Ha, ha.
Good.
So that's how this works.
Now, the other thing
you can do once you've
got a color like this,
is you could do things
like complementary colors.
If you think about the HSL--
if you've not done
HSL, it's where--
you can think of it as
like a color wheel going
from red all the way around
the rainbow, back to red again.
So that's the H, the hue.
And you think of
that in the color.
I think you actually mark
that between 0 and 360 degrees
when you mark it in CSX.
And then there's the
saturation, which is obviously
how saturated the color is.
And lightness taking
it from white to black.
And I think 50%
lightness is essentially
kind of the color in the middle
between black, the color,
and white, if that makes sense.
But what we can do is
if we have a color,
and wherever it is
on that color wheel,
and we spin it through
180 degrees, that will
be the complementary color.
So let me just show you that
in dev tools very quickly.
So I've picked this one here.
This one here.
And in dev tools you
can click on the color
and you get this little thing.
And it's currently
set to an RGBA value.
But if I do that, you can see
that it's now gone into HSLA.
So you can know
ignore the alphabet.
Because we don't need to know.
So 48 plus 180 degrees would
be 228 if my math is correct.
And then you see we have
this kind of purple color.
Whoopsy daisy.
So that's the way
it was originally.
In front of me?
Yeah.
So I don't know how I'm going
to put this side by side.
But if I could, I would easily.
But I don't think
I can very easily.
Wait.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Did I say 136?
No.
Let we just reload this page.
Did I get that wrong?
Oh no, it's because it's in RGB.
Deary me, I am having a bad day.
HSL.
There we are.
So if I do 228, you see I end up
with this kind of purple color,
which, you see, also
works just fine in terms
of the colors around it.
But it is actually technically
the complementary color.
So if I pulled out the
kind of light brown
as this is the color
I think I should
use as the dominant, the
primary color for this palette,
then I can also find
its complementary color
by converting to HSL
and then spinning it
through 180 degrees.
There is plenty
of code out there
to show how you convert
from RGB over to HSL,
so I'm not going to
get into any of that.
And also I think you
probably can do it in SAS.
I imagine there will
be sort of SAS helpers
that let you do that.
Maybe not.
But all the same, there
is plenty of code.
So I'm going to go into that.
But there you go.
That is how I intend to get
from a thumbnail of a video
and find out its
colors, and then
figure out what swatch I need.
Huh?
Brilliant.
All right, I will catch
you in the next one.
I think what we'll do in the
next one, the next entry,
is talk about
Shaka Player, which
is how I think I'm going to
do all the Dash and HLS video
playback stuff.
See you there.
Hey folks, thanks for watching.
Don't forget that there
is more content that you
can find kind of over here-ish.
And if you want to subscribe,
there's probably a button.
I don't know.
Maybe there.
Maybe somewhere around there.
Click that if you've
not done that.
Brilliant.